Goal here is that we test what an attacker could do within the entire network. After all, the main goal is not only to successfully exploit a publicly available system but also to get sensitive data or find all ways that an attacker could render the network unusable. One of the most common examples is ransomware. If a system in the corporate network is infected with ransomware, it can spread across the entire network. It locks down all the systems using various encryption methods, making them unusable for the whole company until a decryption key is entered.

---
Overview of the phases
1. Pivoting: non routable entworks can still be reached using several techinques. This allows us to scan them for vulnerabilities and penetrate deeper into the network. This process is also know as pivoting. Ex) printer at home that is not accessible from the internet, but we can send print jovs from our home network. If one of the hosts on our home network has been compromised, it could be leveraged to send these jobs to the printer. Through this is a simple example it illustrates the goal of pivoting, which is to access inacessible systems via an intermediary system.
2. Evasive testing
   We should also consider whether evasive testing is part of the assessment scope. There are different procedures for each tactic, which support us in disguising these request to not trigger an internal alarm among the administrators and the blue team. There are many ways to protect against lateral movement, including network segmentation, threat monitoring, IPS. IDS, EDR, etc. To bypass these efficiently, we need to understand how they work and what they respond to. Then we can adapt and apply methods and strategies that help avoid detection.
3. Information gethering
   We must first get an overview of which systems and how many can be reached from our system. This information may already be available to us from the last post exploitation stage, where we took a closer look at the settings and configurations of the system. 
4. Vulnerability assessment
   From the inside of the network differs from the previous procedures. This is because far more erros occur inside a network than on hosts and servers exposed to the internet. Here, the groups to which one has been assigned and the rights to different system components play an essential role. In addition, it is common for users to share information and documents and work them on together. 
5. Exploitation
   Once we have found and prioritized these paths, we cna jump to the step where we use these to access the other systems. We often find ways to crack passwords and hashes and again higher priviliges. Another standard method is to use our existing credentials on other systems. There will also be situations where we do not even have to crack the hashes but can use them directly. For example, we can use the tool reponder to intercept NTLMv2 hashes. If we can intercept a hash from an administrator, then we can use the pass the hash technique to log in as that administrator on multiple hosts and servers. After all, the lateral movement stage aims to move through the internal network. Existing data and information can be versatile and often used in many ways. 
6. Post exploitation
   Once we have reached one or more hosts or servers, we go through the steps of the post exploitation stage again for each system. Here we again colect system information data from created users, and business information that can be presented as evidence. However, we must again consider how this different information must be handled and the rules defined around sensitive data in the contract. Finally, we are ready to move on to the proof of concept phase to show off our hard work and help our client, and those responsible for remediation efficiently reproduce our results. 
   [[PoC proof of concept]]