DNS spoofing: attack where some intruder wants to install fake ip address for the valid name in somebody’s dns server. For example SFU has a dns server, one of them has the microsoft. Com , and someone points the microsoft. Com into completely different address. That person can go into SFU DNS server and point microsoft. Com into the different address, and dns server will relocate the access to the different point every time. DNS uses a client-server architecture, we use resolver, which asks the server for the address mapping, and DNS server gives the answer back to the resolver. If the DNS server does not have the answer, it has to go to the authoritative server,  or just quickly give back x authoritative answer. UDP on port 53. Server responds, client creates an ID and sends a message, the server replies with the same ID, if the client gets reply with two answer with the same id, assumes there was a problem and drops the second message. Duplicated messages are dropped. Knowing all of these, how would you spoof?

Resolver, DNS server and the intruder. Intruder wants to put the fake address mapping to the DNS server. You have to send a fake answer back with the question that does not exist on the DNS server. It is going to drop the legitimate answer if you do it faster, since it is going to drop the duplicate. The only information needed is the id, since it communicates via the id. First send the bogus meg to get the ID. Then send the next msg quick, and id address will increment by 1. While attacking, there might be multiple requests however, send a series of possible id sets, very quickly. This is the reason why many DNS is moving to TCP based communication. 

TLS: you will know if the sender is who they claim to be. One of the services they provide. Even if the attacker can put the right ip address, they have their own certificate for the connection. Other than the server itself, no one will able to know. The invalid certificate will lead to connection fail. 

